Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to be building out a shopping cart.
So first of all we need some items for our shopping cart so we've got we need to create an array that's
going to hold a bunch of items that we're going to then utilize within our shopping cart.
So let's create some items there so maybe we've got an iPhone in there and we've got a price of that
iPhone.
So we've also got so we actually need to to create this as an object so let's convert this into an object.
And we know that we can have a series of objects within an array so we can loop through all of those
items as well.
So let's put them in here and then for an object just as we saw last time we need to give it a key and
then a value.
So the value can be iPhone and the key can be name.
Let's do cost as well.
And I say get rid of the quotes here so that we can have a numeric value.
So we've got a number of different things here.
So we've got a cost.
We've got a name and maybe also we want to have if we have multiple So we want more specific information.
So we'll call in details.
So this iPhone and what color it is or something like that so that we've got some more options for details.
And next we need to copy this format and do a comma separated out.
So I'm going to do a number of different items here that we can build out for our shopping cart.
So the next thing i pod and make this 800 and then maybe we have something like a cable or something
and it's a three foot cable.
So three it's a three foot cable.
And the cost for this cable is going to be 10 bucks.
Let me just beautify this.
So it's a lot more readable.
You've got a cable and then next.
This is just a bunch of random stuff that I'm putting in here for our shopping cart.
So maybe this one's a camera and it's
25 megapixel and this camera is 300 bucks.
So we need some more random stuff so maybe this is a laptop and the laptop is Intel iOS 7 or something
like that.
And let's give it a cost of twelve hundred.
And into LCD
monitor
LCD monitor and this is a 24 inch screen so this one is 200 bucks.
And lastly let's let's do one more and we'll just do TVs of TV.
So just a really simple TV and it's a 50 inch TV and let's do 450.
So there we go.
So now we've got a bunch of products here ready to go.
And we've got to build out our details for our web page.
So we've got to loop through all of these items and build them out so that they can be clicked and they
can add into our shopping cart.
So let's let's build that out and this is all done in Javascript.
So first of all we know we need to loop through all of those items that we have available.
So we've got items and we're going to loop through it so we're going to do the For Each loop.
So for each and we're going to execute for each one of these.
And then within here within the for each.
We're going to do a function and for the value we're going to return back the.
And let's just for now let's just console log.
So just to make sure that we're picking up all of that information within the console.
So let's go back to the page.
We don't see anything yet.
Let's open up the console and you can see within the console we've got all of our Leighton's listed.
So as we loop through we've got all of this information and then this is the information we can use
to build our Web page.
So let's go out and build out our Web page.
So as we're looping through I'm going to set up a variable called H Tim L and I couldn't just keep it
a blank.
And then within here solutes build out r h t m l so h t m will equal h t m l and start with a div and
give it a class of item within the div and next to each 3.
And then within here let's add in let's add in one of the values there so what we're going to do probably
will do the name.
So it's returning back that object name.
So H-3 so close that one off and then we could probably also use an image.
So I can grab an image from place hold it that we used before.
So we're all going to have the same image.
And of course we could always add the image details within the object and so on.
So if we want to vary them we can do that as well.
So we're just to go quickly.
We're not going to output that but you're welcome to add that if you need to.
So we've got another option here for for some of the details.
But the product so let's do the details.
So output the details value there and then next have a clickable link.
So this is just going to be in H.F. and it's actually not going to go anywhere so I just want to have
a link and I'm going to give it a class so I'll give it a class of product item.
So these are all the different items and we're going to use the data attributes in order to pass the
values on the click.
So let's set up some data set up some data attributes and this is actually probably one of the easiest
ways to add in.
So I've got a double quote.
I've got a single quote.
I've got a plus plus single quote and a double quote so pick up the name that way.
And next let's add in another dieta attributes you've got a name so let's do data asks for data details.
Call it data ass so you can pick the information up and we need to do the same thing that we did over
here where we need to equal that to the details so that we can always pass that those details whenever
we get it clicked and then we also need to have the price as well.
So let's add in one more data attribute there and we're going to call it price.
And then this is the cost because we've got all of those values.
And so basically what I'm doing here is I'm just simply adding in a bunch of data attributes so that
we can pick up this information.
And there's actually one more that I wanted to add.
And I do want to have a distinct ID number so I can do that as we're looping through but unfortunately
because I'm not doing a for loop I don't have an ID value.
Handy right now so let's let's just X to zero and I going a set the ID to whatever value of x it is.
So that way we can distinguish between the values.
And you could also if you were pulling it in from your database you might already have an ID.
So you could just use that one.
This one just needs to be that distinct number.
In order for us to identify it within the cart and then let's do it.
So this would just be a hyperlink where we can add the value to a card and this will increase into the
H HMO and couple of things we do need to do increment x.
And also once we've finished the loop let's let's do a document get element by id and let's grab output
and we'll do the inner of output and we'll update it with whatever we got.
An HMO or thought to it
and I'll add in a line break there.
So let's go ahead and try the suit.
So we refreshed the page and we've got all of our items there being shown within our visual area.
So next thing that we need to do is we need to do some styling for the items.
So this again this is all optional This isn't anything with javascript.
It's just so that it displays a little bit nicer are not going to spend a lot of time on it.
So I'm going to add in a border so that velox we can distinguish between the different items add in
some padding so do a percentage here and do with as well.
So do something like 29 percent and float them all to the left.
So I'm not going to worry too much about the styling but let's just float them all to the left and give
them the height as well so they're all nice and equal height of 300 picks.
So let's refresh that now and try that out.
One other thing we got to take care of those images.
So I did add in a class called Image fluid and this is a board that vowel that name from Bootstrap.
So I don't have bootstrap attached to here so I have to mimic some of this.
So that's Max with that 100 percent.
So basically that will keep images all contained.
And it looks like I haven't closed off one of the divs properly and that's why I'm getting that kind
of overlap there so I can add that in and try that again.
So it's refreshed the save the save the page and go back and refresh it actually I've got two divs there
so before I save it and refresh it now.
So everything now.
And neatly are lines little bit better now.
So now we're ready to start adding in some javascript functionality.
Let's come on up in the next lesson.
So what I want you to do now to practice is to build out a list of items and output them.
So loop through all of those items and output them within a web page and then add in the data attributes
from the list of items.
And then we're going to do in the next lesson is I'm going to show you a can pick up this information
when it gets clicked.
So that's coming up in the next lesson.